['add to your travel itinerary. Vibrant, vivid and versatile, these fairs and festivals are certainly one-of-a-kind experiences.', "Serendipity Arts Festival, Goa From its launch in 2016, the Serendipity Arts Festival in Goa has evolved into one of the largest annual interdisciplinary cultural extravaganzas in South Asia. The event is a celebration of the richness and diversity of culture and creativity, showcasing a variety of contemporary and traditional art forms — dance, music, theatre, arts and crafts. Jaipur Literature Festival, Rajasthan The festival features panel discussions on a wide range of topics such as literature, culture, politics, and society with participation from authors, poets and thinkers from around the world. It is a congregation of a diverse mix of the world's greatest writers, thinkers, humanitarians, politicians, business leaders, sports people and entertainers on one stage to champion the freedom to express and engage in thoughtful debate and dialogue. Kochi-Muziris Biennale, Kerala The Kochi-Muziris Biennale is an international exhibition of contemporary art being held in Kochi, Kerala every two years. It is India’s first biennial of international contemporary art and its story is unique to India’s current reality—its political, social and artistic landscape. Nagaur Cattle Fair, Rajasthan The fair is marked by traditional music and dance performances as well as cultural activities and sports such as camel and horse", 'vibrant fair is celebrated in October/November and runs about for a week. International Yoga Festival, Rishikesh, Uttar Pradesh Feed the soul seeker in you at this week-long Yoga festival by the Ganges in Rishikesh. Join us at this little town at the Himalayan foothills and indulge in the wellness of yoga on the banks of the holy river Ganges.India’s vibrant character and a diverse ethnicity are revealed in its colourful fairs and festivals celebrated all over the country. Dyed in vivacious hues, and pulsating with energy, these celebrations give you a taste of Indian religion and culture. Religious rituals, tribal culture, tourism festivals, and thousands of years of beliefs; Indians leave no chance to celebrate their illustrious legacy. Often called the intangible heritage of India, these endearing celebrations with glittering fireworks, colourful jamboree, dance & music, and mouth watering delicacies are a rocking experience. If you are planning a trip to India, here are some of the festivities you must add to your travel itinerary. Vibrant, vivid and versatile, these fairs and festivals are certainly one-of-a-kind experiences.', 'festive crowds during Durga Puja celebrations. The festival is celebrated in September or October. Hemis Gompa Festival, Ladakh Marking the birth of Guru Padmasambhava and celebrated at the beautiful Hemis Monastery, this monastic festival is much known for its Cham Dance, performed by the monks, dressed in fineries and magnificent colorful masks. It is a two-day event that is celebrated on the 10th day of the fifth month of Tibetan Calendar, which is the month of June/July in Gregorian Calendar. Rann Utsav, Kutch, Gujarat Rann Utsav is a celebration of the white desert and is the longest celebrated festival in India. It starts in November and continues till February, each year. This colorful extravaganza celebrates the culture, crafts, and cuisines of Gujarat. Stay in the white tent city, go for camel safaris, and soak in the festivities at the largest salt desert in the world. India Art Fair, New Delhi India Art Fair is a leading platform to discover modern and contemporary art from South Asia. This is an annual event that takes place in the months of January or February that brings a large collection of contemporary art practices to the fore.', 'and its story is unique to India’s current reality—its political, social and artistic landscape. Nagaur Cattle Fair, Rajasthan The fair is marked by traditional music and dance performances as well as cultural activities and sports such as camel and horse races, acrobatics, turban tying competitions, and cultural contests. The fair is known for its storytellers, jugglers, puppeteers, etc. It is held at Jodhpur every year during January-February and continues for eight days. Modhera Dance Festival, Gujarat This festival of dance known as Uttarardh Mahotsav, derives its name from the planetary and astronomical configuration of the Sun. The festival which takes place every year after Uttarayan, at the Modhera temple dedicated to the Sun God venerates the rotational cycle of the earth around the Sun. It is a three-day celebration of art, music, dance, and culture.']