['Commonly referred to as the science of life, the practice of Ayurveda is as old as time itself. It is believed that Ayurveda, which originated in India, was passed down from the gods to the sages. Brahma, who is one-third of the Trinity is believed to have formulated this ancient science. Based on traditional Hindu medicine systems, the idea behind it is to procure a balance in the body systems through yogic breathing, herbal treatments and diets. The top institute for Ayurveda is located in capital city Delhi. The All India Institute of Ayurveda carries out research and tries to blend modern practices with this branch of ancient wisdom to enhance the benefits. For Ayurvedic treatments of ailments, one can head to the Ayurvedagram Heritage Wellness Centre spread over a generous seven acre. Around 21 km from the city lies the international headquarters of The Art of Living – the Bangalore Ashram. In the picturesque hill station of Dehradun in Uttarakhand lies Vana, a wellness retreat that promises to heal with a combination of Ayurveda, Tibetan healing (Sowa Rigpa), yoga and natural therapies along with modern-day spa, fitness and aqua techniques. Igatpuri, 45 km from Nashik, is home to the Vipassana International Academy, which teaches meditation for self-purification. In Goa lies Devayaa, The Ayurveda and Nature Cure Center, which offers solutions inspired by Ayurveda and Naturopathy for emotional and mental healing. Located in the attractive Chamundi Hills, in Mysuru, is the Indus Valley Ayurvedic Centre that offers detox treatments, massages and weight-loss and beauty packages for complete rejuvenation of mind and body. One can also undertake courses in Ayurvedic treatments and cooking here.', 'Published by the Embassy of India, Vienna, Austri a Design & Layout: Preeti Kathuria', 'the Indus Valley Ayurvedic Centre that offers detox treatments, massages and weight-loss and beauty packages for complete rejuvenation of mind and body. One can also undertake courses in Ayurvedic treatments and cooking here.', 'With its deep-rooted history of Ayurveda, Yoga and mediation, Uttarakhand has risen to fame as a world-known wellness retreat in recent years. Its little town of Rishikesh, set at the Himalayan foothills, on the banks of the holy Ganges, is home to a range of Ayurveda spas and yoga centers. From simple ashrams to five-star luxury resorts offering an array of therapies, Rishikesh is rightly nicknamed the Yoga Capital of the World. Go for some Ayurveda therapies to let go of the stress, take aroma massages, and indulge in yoga on the banks of the Ganges- the experience is rejuvenating!U T T A R A K H A N D', 'PALACE ON WHEELSGreat train Journeys']