['a week. International Yoga Festival, Rishikesh, Uttar Pradesh Feed the soul seeker in you at this week-long Yoga festival by the Ganges in Rishikesh. Join us at this little town at the Himalayan foothills and indulge in the wellness of yoga on the banks of the holy river Ganges.India’s vibrant character and a diverse ethnicity are revealed in its colourful fairs and festivals celebrated all over the country. Dyed in vivacious hues, and pulsating with energy, these celebrations give you a taste of Indian religion and culture. Religious rituals, tribal culture, tourism festivals, and thousands of years of beliefs; Indians leave no chance to celebrate their illustrious legacy. Often called the intangible heritage of India, these endearing celebrations with glittering fireworks, colourful jamboree, dance & music, and mouth watering delicacies are a rocking experience. If you are planning a trip to India, here are some of the festivities you must add to your travel itinerary. Vibrant, vivid and versatile, these fairs and festivals are certainly one-of-a-kind experiences.', "Serendipity Arts Festival, Goa From its launch in 2016, the Serendipity Arts Festival in Goa has evolved into one of the largest annual interdisciplinary cultural extravaganzas in South Asia. The event is a celebration of the richness and diversity of culture and creativity, showcasing a variety of contemporary and traditional art forms — dance, music, theatre, arts and crafts. Jaipur Literature Festival, Rajasthan The festival features panel discussions on a wide range of topics such as literature, culture, politics, and society with participation from authors, poets and thinkers from around the world. It is a congregation of a diverse mix of the world's greatest writers, thinkers, humanitarians, politicians, business leaders, sports people and entertainers on one stage to champion the freedom to express and engage in thoughtful debate and dialogue. Kochi-Muziris Biennale, Kerala The Kochi-Muziris Biennale is an international exhibition of contemporary art being held in Kochi, Kerala every two years. It is India’s first biennial of international contemporary art and its story is unique to India’s current reality—its political, social and artistic landscape. Nagaur Cattle Fair, Rajasthan The fair is marked by traditional music and dance performances as well as cultural activities and sports such as camel and horse", 'social and artistic landscape. Nagaur Cattle Fair, Rajasthan The fair is marked by traditional music and dance performances as well as cultural activities and sports such as camel and horse races, acrobatics, turban tying competitions, and cultural contests. The fair is known for its storytellers, jugglers, puppeteers, etc. It is held at Jodhpur every year during January-February and continues for eight days. Modhera Dance Festival, Gujarat This festival of dance known as Uttarardh Mahotsav, derives its name from the planetary and astronomical configuration of the Sun. The festival which takes place every year after Uttarayan, at the Modhera temple dedicated to the Sun God venerates the rotational cycle of the earth around the Sun. It is a three-day celebration of art, music, dance, and culture.', 'in September or October. Hemis Gompa Festival, Ladakh Marking the birth of Guru Padmasambhava and celebrated at the beautiful Hemis Monastery, this monastic festival is much known for its Cham Dance, performed by the monks, dressed in fineries and magnificent colorful masks. It is a two-day event that is celebrated on the 10th day of the fifth month of Tibetan Calendar, which is the month of June/July in Gregorian Calendar. Rann Utsav, Kutch, Gujarat Rann Utsav is a celebration of the white desert and is the longest celebrated festival in India. It starts in November and continues till February, each year. This colorful extravaganza celebrates the culture, crafts, and cuisines of Gujarat. Stay in the white tent city, go for camel safaris, and soak in the festivities at the largest salt desert in the world. India Art Fair, New Delhi India Art Fair is a leading platform to discover modern and contemporary art from South Asia. This is an annual event that takes place in the months of January or February that brings a large collection of contemporary art practices to the fore.', "A spiritual journey is one when a person travels in search of a new or expanded meaning about oneself, life, nature, or for a higher good. The passage may clear the mind and lead to a personal transformation, after which the pilgrim returns to their daily life. The absence of daily distractions make way for the vast invisible supreme energy to expand and synergize with the traveller. Some journeys create new realities, clear the mind and discern what’s pending. Pilgrimages frequently involve a journey or search of moral or spiritual significance. It is a journey to a shrine or any other location which is of importance to a person's beliefs and faith. Kumbh Mela is one of the largest gatherings of humans in the world where pilgrims gather to bathe in a sacred or holy river. The location is rotated among Prayagraj, Haridwar, Nashik, and Ujjain. Pilgrims enter the Badrinath Temple in Uttarakhand, India for a darśana. Another popular pilgrimage site is the Char Dham (Four Holy pilgrimage sites) which comprises of Puri, Rameswaram, Dwarka, and Badrinath (or alternatively the Himalayan towns of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri) Some of the major Temple cities are Puri, which hosts a major", 'Hornbill Festival, Nagaland Take a sneak peek into the tribal heritage of Nagaland at the Hornbill Festival, celebrated every December in Kisama Heritage Village near Kohima. Traditional tribal dances, food, cultural galas, and sports of the various Naga tribes are the highlights of the Hornbill Festival. Kumbha Mela Recognized as the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO, Kumbh Mela is deeply rooted in Hindu mythology. Celebrated once every 12 years in four river-bank pilgrimages in Prayagraj, Nashik, Haridwar, and Ujjain, Kumbha Mela is the largest gathering of human beings on the planet. Holy baths, religious discourses, and feasts & festivities are a part of the celebrations. The dates of Kumbh Mela may vary based on the lunar calendar. Durga Puja, Kolkata, West Bengal Age-old rituals, joined with boisterous revelry and mouthwatering cuisines are the highlights of Durga Puja, that celebrates the many forms of the Goddess. Check out the magnificent pandals (gatherings), savor delicious food, and mingle with the festive crowds during Durga Puja celebrations. The festival is celebrated in September or October. Hemis Gompa Festival, Ladakh Marking the birth of Guru Padmasambhava and celebrated at the beautiful Hemis Monastery, this monastic festival is much known for its Cham']